EU foreign ministers are meeting in
Brussels to discuss a number of issues
including the Gaza War foreign policy
Chief Joseph borl has just been speaking
Let's cross to Paul Brennan who is in
Brussels covering the meeting for us and
Paul when it comes to Gaza what's been
said so far there this
morning well the International Community
and the European Union here in Brussels
has been watching the Carnage unfolding
in Gaza with mounting horror and the
foreign uh affairs Chief the foreign
policy Chief Joseph Burell is really
trying to Corral opinion of all 27
members of the European Union uh under
one consensus it's proving difficult
because there are differences of opinion
as to how best to go about it uh but the
what is agreed is that there is grave
concern from all 27 members about
particularly the attacks that we've seen
on Hospitals now the statement that has
been put out in writing in advance of
this says for example there need to be
Rapid Safe unhindered humanitarian
access and that the uh the hostilities
uh which are are taking a horrific toll
on civilians and medical staff and the
international humanitarian law
stipulates that hospitals medical
supplies and civilians inside those
hospitals must be protected and what
Joseph Perell said verbally as he went
into this meeting was that action is
needed without
delay we ask for an immediate POS poses
I'm saying that in
plural not a single one but several ones
poses
but it is an objective is immediate
poses and humanitarian corridors to be
established in order to face the dire
situation of the people in
Gaza I mentioned the differences of
opinion there they are preventing the
European Union from calling for a full
formal ceasefire instead they're having
to ask just for discretionary pauses uh
in the hostilities and the reason for
that is because there are differences
within the countries so for example
Spain and France would favor a ceasefire
whereas Germany is not prepared to go
that far Germany just wants to see uh
humanitarian pauses won't go further
than that uh there won't be more today I
mean they will discuss it uh there won't
be a change of opinion today the
statement uh tells us exactly where the
Europe Union stands at this particular
time but the pictures coming out of Gaza
are putting mounting pressure on these
foreign ministers and on their leaders
back in their various capitals for for
for more action okay thanks so much for
that that's Paul Brennan for us in
Brussels